Clarify discrete and remove odd statement about Pantelides. (#2887)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/classes.tex

definition equations is given in \cref{variability-of-expressions}.

\begin{nonnormative}

> For \lstinline!Real! variables we can distinguish two subtly different categories: discrete-time and piecewise constant.

Reviewer: To avoid giving the impression of being non-overlapping categories, we could incorporate the sentence from below already here:
```suggestion
For \lstinline!Real! variables we can distinguish two subtly different categories: discrete-time and piecewise constant, where the discrete-time variables are a subset of all piecewise constant variables.
```

> For \lstinline!Real! variables we can distinguish two subtly different categories: discrete-time and piecewise constant.

Author: Yes, adding.

> The discrete-time \lstinline!Real! variables must be assigned in a when-clause.

Reviewer: What about also including the converse implication?  Would it read better with less use of _the_?
```suggestion
For a \lstinline!Real! variable, being discrete-time is equivalent to being assigned in a when-clause.
```

> The discrete-time variables can be used as argument to \lstinline!pre!.

Reviewer: I think this should be strengthened:
```suggestion
A variable used as argument to \lstinline!pre! outside a when-clause must be discrete-time.
```

> The discrete-time variables are a subset of all variables that are piecewise constant and only change at events.

Reviewer: Possibly already incorporated in first sentence.

Author: Agreed

Author: Note that there's a subtle different in that a Real variable could be piecewise constant but change at non-event time points. I have no idea how you would construct and verify that, so I'll just ignore it.

Reviewer: It sounds like it could be worth giving some thought, as it could actually add value to this non-normative text on a non-trivial topic with several subtleties.

Author: I made an attempt at this.

Reviewer: What about a simple `if`-expression with `noEvent` condition?
```
  Real x = if noEvent(time^2 > 0.5) then 1.0 else -1.0;
```

Author: Yes. And preferably without the super-script as it just makes it look even more contrived than necessary. If we want more than one event an alternative is `Real x=if noEvent(cos(time) >0.5) then 1.0 else -1.0;`

Reviewer: I didn't want more than one event, but an easy way to construct a jump at a time that would be unlikely to coincide with the output grid.

Author: I understand that, but to me avoiding events for periodic changes makes even more sense.

Reviewer: Sure, `cos(time) > 0.5` would also be fine.

Author: I have added such a case.

Reviewer: Looks good.  Resolving.

Tools may optimize code to only compute piecewise constant variables at events.

\begin{lstlisting}[language=modelica]

> model ShowDiscrete

Reviewer: I'm not if the _show_ in the model name really means anything.  Maybe `PiecewiseConstantReals` would capture more of the essence?

Author: Fine

  discrete Real xd1 "Must be assigned in a when-clause, discrete-time";

>   Real xd2 "Assigned in a when clause (below) and thus discrete-time";

Reviewer: Use dashed form:
```suggestion
  Real xd2 "Assigned in a when-clause (below) and thus discrete-time";
```

>   Real xc3 "Not discrete-time, but piece-wise constant";

Reviewer: Say "piecewise":
```suggestion
  Real xc3 "Not discrete-time, but piecewise constant";
```

equation

>   when sample(1,1) then

Reviewer: Space after comma:
```suggestion
  when sample(1, 1) then
```

    xd1 = pre(xd1) + 1;
    xd2 = pre(xd2) + 1;
  end when;

>   // It is legal to use pre for a discrete variable outside of when

Reviewer: It's "discrete-time" (haven't checked line length(:
```suggestion
  // It is legal to use pre for a discrete-time variable outside of when
```

definition equations is given in \cref{variability-of-expressions}.

\begin{nonnormative}
For \lstinline!Real! variables we can distinguish two subtly different categories: discrete-time and piecewise constant, where the discrete-time variables are a subset of all piecewise constant variables.
The \lstinline!Real! variables declared with the prefix \lstinline!discrete! is a subset of the discrete-time \lstinline!Real! variables.
For a \lstinline!Real! variable, being discrete-time is equivalent to being assigned in a when-clause.
A variable used as argument to \lstinline!pre! outside a when-clause must be discrete-time.

> Tools may optimize code to only compute piecewise constant variables at events starting from discrete-time expressions.

Reviewer: What is meant by "starting from discrete-time expressions"?

Author: Removing.

Reviewer: Looks good now.  Resolving.

> Tools may optimize code to only compute piecewise constant variables at events starting from discrete-time expressions.

Reviewer: How about breaking the paragraph here, and put the sentences about possible optimizations after the listing?

Author: Ok.

Reviewer: Looks good.  Resolving.

> Tools may optimize code to only compute piecewise constant variables at events starting from discrete-time expressions.

Reviewer: Did you really mean piecewise constant here (instead of discrete-time), sounds like it contradicts the statement below?

Author: Yes, will try to clarify.

Reviewer: Looks good now.  Resolving.

definition equations is given in \cref{variability-of-expressions}.

\begin{nonnormative}
A discrete-time variable is a piecewise constant signal which changes its values only at event instants during simulation.
There may be additional \lstinline!Real! variables that are piecewise constant without being declared as \lstinline!discrete!.

> Those additional variables may not be used where a \lstininline!discrete! variable is required, but tools may optimize code to only compute them at events.

Reviewer: I think it would be good to include at least one example of where being declared `discrete` is required.

Author: Added example.

> There may be additional \lstinline!Real! variables that are piecewise constant without being declared as \lstinline!discrete!.
> Those additional variables may not be used where a \lstininline!discrete! variable is required, but tools may optimize code to only compute them at events.

Reviewer: I think this is what you mean:
```suggestion
The \lstinline!Real! variables declared as \lstinline!discrete! are a subset of all discrete-time \lstinline!Real! variables.
Only being discrete-time is not sufficient where a \lstinline!discrete! variable is required.
```

Author: I understand that it is confusing and tried to clarify.
